---
layout: post
title: "SW Reflection"
author: "Will Harris"
date: 2019-11-1 18:35:12 -0500
categories: jekyll update
---
#SW reflection
This project was an interesting one to me, and one my family finds an interesting thing to hear. It certainly tested my skills in programming as this was literally my first foray into the C# language in the form of asp.net. Fortunately, I have decided to not take the back-end programming and testing part and instead decided to focus on front-end JavaScript and AJAX. I have found that I was rather good at JavaScript, even though most my efforts in JavaScript were never really implemented. What I have done in JavaScript were either hard to finish or we realized they didn’t serve much purpose to the website overall, so they were deleted. However, my skills in JavaScript and general coding helped to create a website that would make the work of the Salvation Army easier to manage and keep track of.

The work of the Salvation Army, I feel, are effective at making social changes in this area. They do a lot of work helping the poor, especially around the holiday season where donations come in and people come to volunteer in the name of good will. I feel that the work my group has done will help in this. We are making it easier for all of that volunteer work to happen and to keep track of. This will help to have volunteering events such as the Angel Tree they do happen more readily and preparedly. By doing so, it will help them to alleviate the problems those in poverty have.

I found that none of my beliefs or fundamental values have been challenged in this project. I have found that my social ideal to help those in poverty to be confirmed in this project of helping create a web application for signing up and creating events. I have found that the classwork I have been given have helped build up my skills up to the point where I could build a decent website on my own, and a very good website with a group of people. The classwork also helped me to understand the wide breadth of ways I could help with my computer programming skills, with the website my group made being a very good example. Though if there is one thing I would challenge about my class work after my experience it would probably be how seemingly simple the front-end part is. On their own, they are very simple and can create very fun little websites for yourself. Beyond that, however, and it does not become simple. My efforts to create a calendar only to have it inevitably scrapped is a reason why I think this way.

This experience hasn’t reshaped my views on the public issues that have called me to action. However, this experience has reshaped how I thought of how I could help in social, political, environmental, or community issues in my community or elsewhere. I have learned new coding skills that are very prevalent in the age of the internet and smartphones. I know that organizations will want to create websites or web applications to help themselves modernize and connect to the new generation of people who can volunteer, spread awareness, or otherwise help the organization in their endeavors. This, of course, presents a good wealth of opportunities for me going forwards as to how I can help. And I am excited to see how I can use these to help in my community sometime in the future.
